All right, in a little bit,
I'm gonna leave you to do this one.
But let's talk a little
bit about form validation.
And then we'll do an exercise,
we can kinda fill that one in and
do a little bit additional
form validation, as well.
So if we go to this form, and
we hit Sign In, we get that helpful chrome
A little pop up that says,
please fill out this required field.
And because it's also type email,
if you say just like,
it's like, nah, right?
But that's like Chrome.
So like, how do you that's not on the DOM?
So like, how do you test that?
There's actually a bunch of ways.
And or if there was an error
that came back from your server,
you might also like the user already
exists, and where on the sign up page,
invalid password, you might want to
check all of these different things.
But those are just like looking for
the DOM element on the page there, right?
This is like literally a thing that
Chrome is making or Firefox is making or
what have you.
And we wanna figure out
how we might test that.
So let's play around with it for a second.
And we'll go through.
All right.
So we've got,
we wanna require an email And
so what could we say here?
Let's go ahead, and
the way that I got that if you saw,
was I clicked on the sign-in button
without an email in there, right?
So in order to get us into that situation,
that part's pretty straightforward What we
might do in this case is let's
go ahead and grab that button
grab that sign in button right there,
sign in submit.
That's a good name for a button.
And so we'll say so as submit.
Start there.
So now we'll say so get at Submit.
Click on it.
Set this one to only for a second.
Right, that was not, Should be the only
one wanting to have another only in place.
Yep.
If you have to that have only, All right
cool, Let's sign up
Couldn't find that on there.
The issue is I went to the signup page and
look for the Sign In button my test works.
Not what I thought.
But let's go ahead and
we'll change out to sign up in this case.
All right, cool.
We're back.
So we see that now we want to test it
that like we didn't move to a page,
I guess we could test that
the location didn't change, I guess.
That's not really testing the right thing
I want to test that that thing happened.
I want a test that said that
this form was invalid and
ideally what the actual
issue was in this case.
So cool we've got the the situation made,
but now we need to verify
the things are Not working in the way
that we're expecting them to not work.
Alright, so what we could do is we could
go ahead and get that in that email field.
I'll tell you why I'm not going to
make this an alias in a second.
So we'll go ahead and we'll get that and
if there is one of those pop ups
It turns out that this element has
a pseudo class just in the browser,
that will work as a selector.
So we could say invalid.
And this is effectively what we're trying
to do is exactly what was brought up with
the filters as the question of making sure
that there is at least I mean this will
probably work right, that there is one
that is called invalid so we have one
hits the selector you could theoretically
if there were two that weren't filled in,
you could say that has a length of two
like we saw before we want to make sure
that something rendered on the page, but
right now, we're saying that there should
be at least one of this one element that
has the pseudo selector invalid, right?
But that's not really
good enough cuz we saw,
we're gonna have two different
kinds of invalidation methods.
We could have, you didn't give
me anything and we also had and
you didn't give me an email, right?
And so we need to figure out
how to get a little bit better.
Just saying that it wasn't valid is true.
But like, why wasn't it valid, right?
And so we could go ahead and we can either
look for just the raw element or because
it isn't valid in this case, and this
is where we could get rid of this one,
right because yeah, like this,
it will not find an invalid one.
Unless for whatever we do next,
unless there's something already matches
then it will just give up after this.
So we'll also say, invoke.
And jquery has prop, which is kind of like
value, but we'll get some property of it.
And we're gonna look for
validation message, right?
And that, Should
contain, What was it,
please fill out this field?
Cool.
Right, and
you can see that the test passes.
Again, that doesn't stay there forever,
but
it found it within that
four second window,
which is right after we hit submit and so
we now know that that will show up, right?
There is one other way that
you could check for this.
It's that the field also
has a validity prop,
which we can take a look at actually,
let's go ahead and
open up the developer tools.
No more biggerize my font for
a second here,
and let's go ahead and
we'll just hit sign up.
Please fill out this field.
I don't know if I missed
it if I got it in time, but
this will have a UI so
you can see the validation message and
validity gives me this JavaScript object
that gives me all of kind of as booleans.
Like what the problems are, all right?
So I think it went away at this
photo value missing is true, right?
So this is how it failed the validation.
So in this case, we could go ahead and
get the proper validity, and
then we're going to use it,
it's property that we saw before.
And so grab this, all this,
pop that right in and
we could say it's value missing.
That should, Be true.
All right, so
that's a few ways that you can do it.